---
title: "Do presentations need to be this complicated?"
date: 2011-02-24
comments: true
categories:
---
So I was tasked to run a class on how to run and use a propriatary software.
Our class room was all decked out with the latest SmartBoard technology. But
that is the only highlight of this convoluted story that will leave you
scrating your head in disbalief.

The computer booted up and imediatly started barking about missing network
drive `//FILES/.../Desktop` and my first thought was "Wait WTF? Network drive?
No I'm showing a powerpoint Why the fsck would I want a network drive?" This
error poped up roughly about every 2 minutes. Very anoyying. Then I was unable
to install the propiatary software as I was connected as some network
authentication and as the error box was very vocal about there was no network
(incidently how did I log on if I had no network?)

Anyway among this and many other issues I gave up and grabbed a laptop which
had the software on it. Opps That didn't work. You see the wonderful folks at
HP thought it was wise to put a video card in that could not handle mirrored
displays. This was a problem because the software we use will take over a
second monitor if one exists. So it's either the laptop display or an extended
display. Either way the students don't get to see the presenters view on the
projector. I also found out that the laptop doesn't allow the primary display
to be anything other then the laptop LCD! sigh.

So I thought hey my Mac has a virtual machine, one monitor output, and the
software installed running perfect. Only to find out I forgot the VGA adapter!
Damb it!

Final solotion was to hook up a ether net cable between the HP laptop and the
Mac. Run the virtual machine in full screen. Setup a temporary network between
the machines. Use VNC to view the mac screen and put the VNC viewer on the
extended desktop. Phew that was a lot! But it worked and the students could see
the software on the projector.

Perhaps convoluted but it worked. I'll be contacting the IS department to
figure out why the presentation machine is bust-icated.

Inginuity at it's best.
